docs: add TDEngine docs (#1670)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/data-integration/data-bridge-tdengine.md

# TDengine

> EMQX supports integration with TDengine so you can save client messages and events to TDengine, or use events to trigger the update or removal of data to record the online status or online/offline of clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EMQX supports integration with TDengine so you can save client messages and events to TDengine, or use events to trigger the update or removal of data from TDengine to record the online status or online/offline of clients.
```

## Prerequisites

- Knowledge about EMQX data integration [rules](./rules.md)
- Knowledge about [data bridge](./data-bridges.md)

> ## Features list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features List
```

- [Connection pool](./data-bridges.md#Connection pool)
- [Async mode](./data-bridges.md#Async mode)
- [Batch mode](./data-bridges.md#Batch mode)
- [Buffer queue](./data-bridges.md#Buffer queue)
- [SQL preprocessing](./data-bridges.md#Prepared statement)

> ## [Configuration parameters](#Configuration)

Reviewer: this part is still not very human friendly, let's hide this part first.

<!-- TODO LIKN TO THE CONFIG doc。 -->

> ## Quick starts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quick Starts
```

### Install TDengine

Install TDengine via Docker, and then run the docker image. 

```bash
# To start the TDengine docker image 
docker run --name TDengine -p 6041:6041 tdengine/tdengine

# Access the container
docker exec -it TDengine bash

# Locate the TDengine server in the container
taos

# Create and then select the database
CREATE DATABASE mqtt;

use mqtt;
```

### Connect to TDengine

> We will create 2 data bridges to TDengine for messages storage and event records respectively. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following session creates 2 data bridges to TDengine for messages storage and event records respectively. 
```

> #### [Messages storage](#Storage)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### [Messages Storage](#Storage)
```

4. Input a name for the data bridge. Note: It should be a combination of upper/lower case letters and numbers.
5. Input the connection information. Input **127.0.0.1:6041** as the **Server Host**,  **mqtt** as the **Database Name**, **root** as the **Username**, and **taosdata** as the **Password**.
6. Configure the **SQL Template**. Use the SQL statements below to insert data. Note: This is a preprocessed SQL, so the fields should not be enclosed in quotation marks, and do not write a semicolon at the end of the statements. 

  ```sql
    INSERT INTO mqtt.t_mqtt_msg(ts, msgid, mqtt_topic, qos, payload, arrived) 
      VALUES (${ts}, ${id}, ${topic}, ${qos}, ${payload}, ${timestamp})
  ```

Before creating the above data bridge, please use the following SQL statements to create data table `t_mqtt_msg` in TDengine database for storing the client ID, topic, payload, and creating time of every message. 

  ```sql
    CREATE TABLE t_mqtt_msg (
      ts timestamp,
      msgid NCHAR(64),
      mqtt_topic NCHAR(255),
      qos TINYINT,
      payload BINARY(1024),
      arrived timestamp
    );
  ```

> 7. Advanced settings (optional):  Choose whether to use sync or async query mode as needed. For details, see [Configuration parameters](#Configuration).

Reviewer: For details, see [Configuration parameters](#Configuration). let's hide this part for the moment, it has caused some confusions among our users.

8. Then click **Create** to finish the creation of the data bridge.

> We have successfully created the data bridge to TDengine, now we can continue to create rules to specify the data to be saved into TDengine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have successfully created the data bridge to TDengine, you can continue to create rules to specify the data to be saved into TDengine. 
```

1. Go to EMQX Dashboard, click **Data Integration** -> **Rules**.
2. Click **Create** on the top right corner of the page.

> 3. Input `my_rule` as the rule ID, and set the rules in the **SQL Editor**. Here we want to save the MQTT messages under topic `t/#`  to TDengine, we can use the SQL syntax below. Note: If you are testing with your SQL, please ensure you have included all required fields in the `SELECT` part. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Input `my_rule` as the rule ID, and set the rules in the **SQL Editor**. Suppose you want to save the MQTT messages under topic `t/#`  to TDengine, you can use the SQL syntax below. Note: If you are testing with your SQL, please ensure you have included all required fields in the `SELECT` part. 
```

  ```sql
    SELECT
      *,
      now_timestamp('millisecond')  as ts
    FROM
      "t/#"
  ```

4. Then click the **Add Action** button, select **Forwarding with Data Bridge** from the dropdown list and then select the data bridge we just created under **Data bridge**.  
5. Then, click the **Add** button. 
6. Then click the **Create** button to finish the setup. 

> Now we have successfully created the data bridge to TDengine. You can click **Data Integration** -> **Flows** to view the topology. It can be seen that the messages under topic `t/#`  are sent and saved to InfluxDB after parsing by rule  `my_rule`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the creating of the data bridge to TDengine. You can click **Data Integration** -> **Flows** to view the topology. It can be seen that the messages under topic `t/#`  are sent and saved to InfluxDB after parsing by rule  `my_rule`. 
```

> #### Online/Offline status recording

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Online/Offline Status Recording
```
